---
title: On Factories, manufacturing and industrial robotics in Japan
date: 2014-08-01
template: article.jade
tags: javascript, web development
---

I've been in the Japanese industrial robotics / manufacturing scene for almost two years now. It is a landscape and economic ecosystem vitally important to all our lives that very few of us give a lot of thought to. I've spent a lot of time thinking about it and thought I'd share some insights and perspectives. This is all based on what I've put together over the past two years. A lot of this probably applies to much more than just manufacturing in Japan.

#Black Boxes and Bottlenecks

Think about what a factory is. To me, a factory is a great vehicle that takes a design and turns it into a physical product. They're great big black boxes -- a design and raw materials go in one end, and products come out the other. But they are something else: bottenecks. Very necessary and important bottlenecks, but bottlenecks nonetheless.

Factories cost an astronomical amount of money. Coordinating that many people, machines and material effectively is akin to writing a symphony, being a quarterback in the NFL or playing chess against a grand master. It requires immense logistical finnese and of course a ton of money. This probably comes as surprise to nobody, but why do factories cost so much money?

In my mind there are two major categories to think about when it comes to factory cost: capital cost and opportunity cost. Capital cost is obvious. These are the things needed to run the factory -- real estate, electricirty, engineers, line workers, technicians, supervisors, janitors, CNC machines, mills, injection machines, molds, drills, hydraulic presses, lathes, plastic, carbon fiber, aluminum, nuts, bolts, oil, etc. The list is probabyl endless.

Invariably, the capital put towards a factory is always expensive no matter what the curcumstances. There is no "siver bullet" that is going to magically make the capital needed for a factory extremely cheap. Sure there are ways to drastically lower capital cost such as building your factory in a country with cheap labor and lax environmental laws. We've seen tons of this in Asia in the last half century. In my opinion though, these cost cutting decisions are neither sustainiable or interesting. Our world is getting smaller and smaller every day and within the next 100 years I think we're going to run out of labor markets and environmental slack to exploit. Also, the longer a group of people spend manufacturing things, typically the better they get at it. This in turn allows for the production of higher quality and more profitlable goods which feeds back into a better standard of living for lots of people. Japan is a poster child for this sort of thing. Back in the 60's and 70's "made in japan" was seen as a mark of disdain on many products. These days it couldn't be any different -- Japan makes some of the worlds best electronics and automobiles for example. This type of dramatic turn-around is a direct result of the experience gained in manufacturing and the highliving standard in japan have this (at least in part) to thank. I'm getting off topic here. Point is that factory captial cost is high and there is not a whole lot we can do about it because factories by their very nature are expensive.

One good thing about capital cost is it is pretty easy to qantify and measure. Opportunity cost on the other hand is a little less straightforward. It is not a direct cost, instead it finds its roots in time. Lets say a company approaches a factory to get its new product built. During the time the company needs to wait for the factory to get set up and start to produce the product, it incurs an oppertunity cost of not being able to make any money selling anything. Once the factory gets going, this oppertunity cost lessens but the overall throughput (time per individual product) starts to factor in. Basically opportunity cost arises any time a company that needs something manufactured is left waiting for a factory. This is why I see factories as bottlenecks -- it is time that the company could have been making money selling the product. Best case scenario consumers are patient and wait, but in the worst case, a competitor swoops in and steals what would have been the original company's business.

As I said, this opportunity cost is much harder to actually quantify, but unlike capital cost it is where all the interesting problems are to be solved. By looking at factories through the lens of black boxes and bottlenecks at the time component (and not the upfront capital cost), we can start to deconstruct the complex beasts that factories are and make smart decisions. I think looking at factories this way is how we begin to make real transformative and innovative solutions that can have a powerful impact on global productivity and the bottom lines of factories. Everybody knows the old adage "time is money". Nowhere is that more true than the world of manufacturing.

###Peeling Back the Veil

So what happens when we look at factories through the lens of black boxes and bottlenecks and attempt to tackle the time problem. Once we start peeling back the veil on factories (and how to peel back that veil is a different conversation entirely -- factories are notoriously secretive and earning their trust is hard work), they go from being one big bottleneck / black box to a complicated web of intermediate steps. Basically a big directed graph of smaller black boxes with their own bottlenecks.

I want to pause for a moment and consider 3D printing. Part of me feels like the reason 3D printing is very attractive is because of the lack of logistical / implementation complexity that "classic" factories suffer from. In essence 3D printers collapse all of these intermediate steps into a couple big printing steps. It makes the barrier between design and physical product much lower and this is something immediately recognizable by most people. Of course 3D printing comes with a million other constraints inherent to current generation 3D printing. Still, they show off the weak spots with the way a "classical" factory works in a very effective manner.

###Impatience and the plight of conservatisim

We all know that people want the things factories produce as soon as possible. Whoever designed and sells the product is losing an astronomical amount of money every second that factory isn't producing, and it gives competitors a chance to beat you to the market and steal all your potential revenue. There is ferocious demand, high pressure and stiff competition that motivate factories to be as quick as possible. Setup time, maintenance, failures and downtime of any kind cost millions. When coupled with our working definition of a factory as a series of intermediate steps and bottlenecks that take a design and raw materials and turn them into a product

First and foremost the manufacturing world embodies conservatism, but is in desperate need for modernization. 

Everybody in the industry knows this but has no clue how to actually execute anything. The "state of the art" for them is positively medieval by modern software engineering standards. Actually, software in general I'd say isn't very well understood or appreciated by the manufacturing world. I think its sort of looked at as this arcane computer wizardry that you need to make machines move. Words like "the cloud" are not really in these people's vocabulary for example.

So one would think that this is a space that is ripe with opportunity. People know they need to change and modernize and stand to benefit substantially from doing so. You'd be correct, however progress is less than easy. At least in Japan, everybody in the manufacturing industry is incredibly suspicious of new, unproven technology. Trust, security, and paranoia about competitors stifle innovation. For example, when we have meetings with some of these companies we're led into a separate building filled with white windowless meeting rooms. There is a table, projector, power outlets, and chairs. No internet (unless we tether off our phones, which is unreliable). All of our interaction with that company is then limited to what can occur in that room with those people in the time we have. Another good example: we were originally trying to push a cloud version of our product to companies. The benefits of cloud vs. self hosting are immense and obvious to anybody with half a clue, but they weren't buying it. So now we sell a "black box" server to companies with our software loaded on it. They plug it into the LAN and use it through the browser. A reasonable compromise, however a huge problem is they universally refuse to connect the thing to the internet let us push software updates to it. They also won't let us send them or have them download software patches over the internet, and then apply the update themselves. It all needs to be done in person or it flat out doesn't happen at all. Our product has no chance to improve and the customer never gets new features, bugfixes, improvements, etc., which is just terrible for everybody. All this mess isn't for lack of finesse or trying either. We have a Japanese guy who is a master negotiator (he was the top sales engineer in all of Japan for an extremely large drill bit company) try to make this happen, and they wouldn't budge. We gave up on what is right now an un-winnable argument against corporate stupidity. New paradigms in the way software works need to be around for a little while longer before they triumph over the decades of corporate (and arguably cultural) inertia. The point I'm trying to make is that while ripe with opportunity and a desire for newer, better things, progress is clouded by paranoia, skepticism in unproven technology, security concerns, hyper conservatism, risk-aversion, etc. It is a massively uphill battle. Companies like ours are literally dragging them into the future kicking and screaming.

Another thing I think you should know: the manufacturing landscape in Japan (the rest of Asia follows this template too). Lets use a company like Canon for example. Lets say a team in Canon's product development department comes up with this new awesome camera that they want to mass produce and sell to consumers. They need a factory to build that camera. Now Canon is a company with some manufacturing experience, but they're really good at designing in selling cameras, not at making factories. So they get help from companies called "system integrators" who do the real gruntwork of building the factory so Canon can make its new camera. There are TONS of system integrators in Japan (actually they're all over the place in Asia). Some are huge, some are tiny, some have different specializations that they're really good at like robotics, or milling, or glass extrusion, or painting, or whatever. These system integrators basically coming up with applications of tools and equipment to put in Canon's new factory so it can make camera. However, these tools and equipment that the system integrators use have to come from somewhere. That is where the companies that make the tools (the robots, milling machines, PLCs, CNC lathes, etc.) come in. That is the space MUJIN mostly operates right now. So to recap: Canon works with system integrators to design and build a factory, and the system integrators in turn work with tool and equipment makers to actually make the factory a reality. My knowledge sort of drops off here, but after the factory is built and they have the supply line in order, they start cranking out cameras and market them to consumers.
